---
title: "2023-08-21 Check-in"
date: 2023-08-21T18:15:02-04:00
---

# 2023-08-21 Check-in

Original [OKRs post](/posts/okr-grids-for-health/) I'm tracking against.


### OKR Confidence

#### `(7/10)` Objective: Reshape my body
  - **Weight loss**
    - I'm now down 35lbs over the past 2 months.  This is still largely due to a strict diet and a healthy amount of exercise.
  - **Exercise**
    - Walking highlights
      - I have been overtraining and my feet and lower legs are not recovering properly between workouts.
      - I've lowered my workouts to 2 miles per day and will slowly build up higher over time.
    - I'm adding some light resistance training to supplement some of the walking miles I'm losing.
  - **Nutrition**
    - I'm still experiencing success with low carb and whole foods
    - I've shifted into a daily intermittent fasting mode.  I'm currently cycling on a 16:8 IF schedule.  (I eat all of my daily calories within an 8 hour window)
    - As long as I eat plenty of protein and fat, I've found it easy to stick with finishing dinner by 7pm, skipping breakfast, and having lunch by 1pm or so the next day.

#### `(8/10)` Objective: Understand my body and health issues.
  - Nothing new to add to podcasts or books from my last check-in.
  - I've resubscribed to youtube and found a lot of really great material there also though!  I'll follow up with some posts detailing some of the notes I'm taking.

#### `(6/10)` Objective: Implement sustainable lifestyle changes
  - Wearing the Continuous Glucose Monitor (CGM) helped me identify what to eat and how to curb the spikes after eating foods heavier in sugars or carbs.
  - I've also taken the opportunity to learn how hyper (high) and hypo (low) blood sugar feels.  It's mind blowing how much food (or the lack of it) impacts the body.


### Metrics

- <span class="metric-red">**Circuit Training**</span>
  - I've been to the gym!
  - The treadmill and I are friends, but I haven't quite made it over to the weight machines yet.
- <span class="metric-yellow">**20 miles per week walking/running**</span>
  - I hurt my foot, so I didn't quite hit my goal this past week.
  - I did put in 18.6 miles.  So close, but not a great finish for the week.
- <span class="metric-yellow">**cook 5 healthy meals**</span>
  - Last week I did cook some chicken breast pretty well.
  - We have been grocery shopping, and I've got a few things I'm looking forward to trying.
- <span class="metric-green">**blog post per week**</span>
  - I did it!
- <span class="metric-yellow">**discipline of morning/evening routine**</span>
  - Early mornings are still a challenge.
  - Getting to sleep at a decent hour is getting better.
  - We have new challenges now that we're back "home" and have access to all our friends and family.  It's too easy to stay up late catching up with everyone.
- <span class="metric-green">**8 hours of sleep**</span>
  - I'm starting to see some consistency here.
- <span class="metric-green">**meds/supplements**</span>
  - I did it!
  - I'm adding some Calium, more Vitamin D, and Turmeric daily for my foot recovery.

### Pipeline

- **Travel days**
  - This past weekend we wrapped up the last 6.5 hours of our 6-month long road trip.
  - We encountered a lot of traffic while not on the back roads.
  - Getting setup in New Braunfels felt very relaxing, if only because we aren't planning any RV trips through the end of the year at least.
- **Foot woes**
  - I overtrained and injured my left foot.
  - After staying off it for a few days I feel more or less normal, but I'm going to take it easy.
  - I've scheduled a visit with a podiatrist to review my form, shoes, and the structure of my foot.
- **Visiting with the Hepatologist**
  - This week is my "big game" week.
  - I've put in a significant amount of effort to drop weight through diet and exercise.  I'm excited to learn how my progress tracks with my effort.
  - My aim is for the blood labs (7/3 -> 8/15) to show a U-turn and present a clear path to recovery.

### Priorities

This past week was difficult with back to back travel weekends, so I did not capture priorities for this past week.  Boo!  

I can at least share some accomplishments.


- **P1: Blood glucose in range**
  - I leveraged diet choices and exercise to keep my blood glucose average at 70mm/dL for the 2 weeks I wore the CGM.
- **P1: maintain healthy diet through the stress of travel days**
  - This was a challenge, but we have managed to keep it low carb and whole foods.
- **P2: improve blog dev to make it easier to post**
  - Most of my development is on a remote server, but this makes regularly posting content more challenging.
  - I installed everything to make blog posts locally on my laptop.
  - Everything is working and this post was written locally!  So more content to come!

...and some things I've started but not yet finished:

- **P1: newsletter and RSS for blog**
  - I did discover that the blog RSS feed is https://blog.ruebenramirez.com/index.xml, but I still need to update the site to make this easy to find.
  - I haven't yet identified the right newsletter integration, but I'm sure I'll get to the bottom of everything this week.
- **P1: Resistance training schedule**
  - I know that I want to keep things light and aerobic to align with the low carb diet I'm on.
  - Beyond the dietary considerations, I've still got a lot to learn about what is and what is not in range.